# AtliQ-Hospitality-Analysis-PowerBI

As part of the codebasics resume challenge, I have worked on this analysis project.

Link to the Challenge:

https://codebasics.io/challenge/codebasics-resume-project-challenge

Link to live Dashboard:

https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/reports/3735c5fb-08f8-443e-b712-35e4b54db5cb/f9d5231095b6a60f29e2?experience=power-bi&clientSideAuth=0

**Problem statement**

Atliq Grands owns multiple five-star hotels across India. They have been in the hospitality industry for the past 20 years. Due to strategic moves from other competitors and ineffective decision-making in management, Atliq Grands are losing its market share and revenue in the luxury/business hotels category. As a strategic move, the managing director of Atliq Grands wanted to incorporate “Business and Data Intelligence” in order to regain their market share and revenue. However, they do not have an in-house data analytics team to provide them with these insights.

Their revenue management team had decided to hire a 3rd party service provider to provide them insights from their historical data.

**Task List**

You are a data analyst who has been provided with sample data and a mock-up dashboard to work on the following task. You can download all relevant documents from the download section.

  -Create the metrics according to the metric list.
  -Create a dashboard according to the mock-up provided by stakeholders.
  -Create relevant insights that are not provided in the metric list/mock-up dashboard.

Provided Mock-up Dashboard



This file contains all the meta information regarding the columns described in the CSV files. we have provided 5 CSV files:
   - dim_date
   - dim_hotels
   - dim_rooms
   - fact_aggregated_bookings
    -fact_bookings


**Column Description for dim_date: **
  1. date: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
  2. mmm yy: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
  3. week no: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
  4. day_type: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekday.



**Column Description for dim_hotels: **
   1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
   2. property_name: This column represents the name of each hotel.
   3. category: This column determines which class [Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property         belongs to. 
  4. city: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.



**Column Description for dim_rooms: **
1. room_id: This column represents the type of room [RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
2. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.


**Column Description for fact_aggregated_bookings: **
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. check_in_date: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
3. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
4. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
5. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.



**Column Description for fact_bookings: **
1. booking_id: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
2. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
3. booking_date: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
4. check_in_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
5. check_out_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
6. no_guests: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
7. room_category: This column represents the type of room [RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
8. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
9. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
10. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking [Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel [Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel [No show].
11. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
12. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.


Provided Mock-Up Dashboard

               Data Model


Overall Analysis View


**Learnt things from this Project**

Learnt to build a new visual using matrix table, which can be utilized for different purpose of analyze.

Based on research into hotel cancellation polices followed by different hotels, understood that most hotels do not charge a cancellation fee if the booking is canceled before three months of booking date.

If the booking is cancelled after that, the charge ranges from 60 to 90% of the booking cost.

Learnt, how to use bookmarks and selection for different purposes. (Page navigation and clear filter button in the dashboard was achieved using bookmarks and selection. 

Tried using color palette and stick with those colors throughout the dashboard (Color palette link)

Some Important insights from the Dashboard.

Mumbai leads in revenue generation with (668.6 M), followed by Bangalore, Hyderabad and Delhi

AtliQ Exotica outperforms all 7 type of property type, generating 320 Million in revenue.
It has a rating of 3.62, an occupancy rate of 57% and cancellation rate of 24.4%.
               AtliQ Bay has the highest occupancy rate at 66%.
Week 24 recorded the peak revenue 139.6 million. Among all
In terms of both occupancy and rating, Delhi leads, followed by Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bangalore.

AtliQ faced a loss of approximately 298million due to cancellations.

Elite type rooms experience the highest number of booking but also have a higher cancellation rate 
AtliQ Hospitality Analysis – PowerBI
